Title

The examination, confession, triall, and execution, of Joane Williford, Joan Cariden, and Jane Hott : who were executed at Feversham in Kent, for being witches, on Munday the 29 of September, 1645 : being a true copy of their evill lives and wicked deeds, taken by the Major of Feversham and jurors for the said inquest : with the examination and confession of Elizabeth Harris, not yet executed : all attested under the hand of Robert Greenstreet, major of Feversham.

Page 1

The Confession of Joan Williford, Septemb. 24. 1645. made before the Major, and other Jurates. Shee confessed: THat the divell about seven yeeres agoe did appeare to her in the shape of a little dog, and bid her to forsake God and leane to him: who replied, that she was loath to forsake him. Shee confessed also that shee had a desire to be revenged upon Thomas Letherland and Mary Woodrufe now his wife. She further said that the divell promised her, that she should not lacke, and that she had money sometimes brought her she knew not whence, sometime one shilling, sometimes eight pence, never more at once; shee called her Divell by the name of Bunne. She further saith, that her retainer Bunne carried Thomas Gardler out of a window, who fell into a backside. She further saith, that neere twenty yeeres since she promised her soule to the divell. She further saith, that she gave some of her blood to the Divell, who wrote the covenant betwixt them: She further saith that the Divell promised to be her servant about twenty yeeres,

Page 2

and that the time is now almost expired. She further saith that Jane Hot, Elizabeth Harris, Joan Argoll were her fellowes. She further saith that her Divell told her that Elizabeth Harris about six or seven yeeres since curst the Boat of one John Woodcott, and so it came to passe. Shee further saith, that the Divell promised her that shee should not sinke being throwne into the water. She further said Goodwife Argoll cursed Mr. Major, and also John Mannington, and said that he should not thrive, and and so it came to passe. She likewise saith, that the Divell sucked twice since she came into the prison, he came to her in the forme of a Muce. She being brought to the Barre, was asked, Guilty or not guilty, she answered, guilty. When she came to the place of execution Mr. Major asked her if she thought she deserved death? to whom she answered, that she had; and that she desired all good people to take warning by her, and not to suffer themselves to be deceived by the Divell, neither for lucre of money, malice, or any thing else, as she had done: but to sticke fast to God, for if she had not first forsaken God, God would not have forsaken her. The Examination of Joan Cariden widdow, taken Septemb. 25. 1645. THis Examinant saith, that about three quarters of a yeere agoe, as she was in the bed about twelve or one of the clocke in the night there lay a rugged soft

Page 3

thing upon her bosome which was very soft, and she thrust it off with her hand; and she saith that when she had thrust it away she thought God forsooke her, for she could never pray so well since as she could before; and further saith, that shee verily thinkes it was alive. The second Examination of the said Joan Cariden, alias Argoll, taken the same day before the Major. THis Examinant saith, that in the same yeere that this Major was formerly Major the Divell came to her in the shape of a blacke rugged Dog, in the night time, and crept into the bed to her, and spake to her in mumbling language; The next night it came to her againe, and required this examinant to deny God and leane to him, and that then he would revenge her of any one she owed ill will to, and thereupon this examinant promised him her soule upon those conditions; And that about that time the Divell sucked this examinant, and hath divers times since sucked her, and that it was no paine to her. September 27. 1645. COnfest upon the examination of Joan Carriden before Master Major, that Goodwife Holt told her within these two daies that there was a great meeting at Goodwife Panterys house, and that Goodwife Dadson was there, and that Goodwife Gardner should have been there, but did not come, and the Divell sat at the upper end of the Table.

Page 4

The Examination of Jane Hott widdow, taken before the Major and Jurates the 25 of September, 1645. THis examinant confesseth that a thing like a hedghog had usually visited her, and came to her a great while agoe, about twenty yeares agoe, and that if it sucked her it was in her sleep, and the paine thereof awaked her, and it came to her once or twice in the moneth and sucked her, and when it lay upon her breast she strucke it off with her hand, and that it was as soft as a Cat. At her first comming into the Goale she spake very much to the other that were apprehended before her, to confesse if they were guilty; and stood to it very perversely that she was cleare of any such thing, and that if they put her into the Water to try her she should certainely sinke. But when she was put into the Water and it was apparent that she did flote upon the water, being taken forth, a Gentleman to whom before she had so confidently spake, and with whom she offered to lay twenty shillings to one that she could not swim, asked her how it was possible she could be so impudent as not to confesse herselfe, when she had so much perswaded the other to confesse: to whom she answered, That the Divell went with her all the way, and told her that she should sinke; but when she was in the Water he sate upon a Crosse-beame and laughed at her. These three were executed on Munday last.

Page 5

The Examination of Elizabeth Harris the 26 of September, 1645. before Master Major. THis examinant saith, that about 19 yeeres agoe the Divell did appeare to her in the forme of a Muse: she further saith, that she had a desire to be revenged, and the divell told her that she should be revenged; she called the Divell her Impe. She further saith, Goodman Chilman of Nuenham said that she stole a Pigge, then she desired that God would revenge her of him, and the man pined away and dyed, and she saw it apparent that her Impe was the cause of that mans death; she further saith, that the Divell bid her to forsake Christ and leane to him, whereupon she saith that she scratched her selfe with her nailes and fetched blood from her breast, and she wiped it with her finger and gave it to her Impe who wrote the covenant with it: she further saith, that a fortnight after the divell sucked her, but she felt no paine. Being demanded how many Witches were in Town? she answered, that were a heavy sentence. She further saith that Goodwife Dadson, Joan Argoe, William Argos wife, Goodwife Cox have very bad tongues; She further saith that her Impe did sucke her every three or foure nights; she further saith that her sonne being drowned in Goodman Woodcots, Migh she wished that God might be her revenger, which was her watchword to the Divell, and this High was cast away, and she conceives that her wish was the cause of its being cast away: she further saith, that Joan Williford told her, that her Impe said

Page 6

on Wednesday last, that though the Boate, (she not knowing what Boat,) went chearfully out, it should not come so chearfully home; She saith further, that Goodwife Pantery did many times make meetings with Goodwife Williford and with Goodwife Hott; She further saith, that Goodwife Gardner hath a very ill tongue. ALL these are true coppies of Examination, one whereof is not yet executed, and were taken before me, Robert Greenstreet, Major.

FINIS.
